Astroglia (literally translated: 'star cells'), or astrocytes, are star-shaped [[Neuroglia|glial cells]] that exist within the [[Brain|brain]] and [[Spinal Cord|spinal cord]]. They perform many functions, including biochemically controlling [[Endothelial Cell|endothelial cells]] that form the [[Blood-Brain Barrier|blood-brain barrier]], provision of nutrients to nervous tissue, maintenance of extracellular ion balance, regulation of cerebral blood flow, and a role in repair and the scarring process of the brain/spinal cord following infections or traumatic injuries. Generically, they are closely related to [[Neuron|neuronal]] function.

## Role in Neuronal Transmission

Apart from structural and reparative functions, astroglia also (debatedly) partake in a series of [[Neurotransmitter|neuronal transmission]] activities:

- Astroglia assist in [[Glutamate (Neurotransmitter)|glutamate]] and [[Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA)|GABA]] transmission, and are known to also release their own glutamate (and thus, cause excitations) or [[Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP)|ATP]]. This has been disputed within the hippocampus.
- In the [[Hippocampus Proper|hippocampus]], astrocytes release [[Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP)|ATP]], which is later [[Hydrolysis|hydrolyzed]] into [[Adenosine|adenosine]]. This acts on neuronal [[Adenosine Receptor|adenosine receptors]] and inhibit synaptic transmission.
- Electrical activity in neurons causes astroglia to release ATP, which in turn stimulates formation of [[Myelin|myelin]] (reinforcing the signal from popular neurons). Instead of directly interacting with the [[Oligodendrocyte|oligodendrocytes]], astrocytes secrete [[Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF)|LIF]] which promotes myelination in oligodendrocytes. This suggests that astrocytes play a role in executive coordination of the brain.
- Recently, human glial [[Progenitor Cell|progenitor cells]] have been grafted onto immature mouse brains. These cells differentiated into astrocytes, and the mice demonstrated improved memory performance and long-term potentiation. This may indicate that astrocytes play a role in the integration of memory and learning within the hippocampus.
- Astrocytes alone drive the circadian rhythms of mice and are sufficient alone to drive the oscillatory nature of the [[Suprachiasmatic Nucleus (SCN)|SCN]].
- Based on [[Calcium|calcium]] waves, electrophysiological evidence, psychophysical evidence, and radioactivity-based glutamate uptake tests, it has been posited that astroglia act both as a lossy neurotransmitter capacitor as well as a logical switch for a nervous system. Depending on their membrane state and the level of the stimulus, astroglia tend to 'block' or 'enable' propagation of a stimulus along a nervous system.